foreign
[Music]
welcome back to the art of
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease in today's
conversation Joe and I focus on
depression and how it shows up in our
thoughts emotions and nervous systems we
talk about how to examine our direct
experience to uncover the root causes of
our depression and how to get unstuck by
relating to ourselves in a new way
we also offer tips and stories about how
to show up for friends or loved ones who
are feeling depressed
I hope you enjoy it
Alright good morning Joe
good morning Brett
ah yeah I'm tired I did not get that
much sleep this week we're preparing for
a wedding there's a lot there there's a
lot work stuff going on there's a lot
that's happening in my family
health-wise
um a lot of that's not looking really
great so
there's there's definitely just a lot
and uh this is my fifth hour on Zoom oh
so far today but the good news is it's
my fifth hour of Zoom with either you or
Tara which is pretty cool that's a
pretty cool kind of morning nice oh yeah
it was a good it was a good session this
morning I enjoyed it
yeah I enjoyed it a lot as well
um and I've also enjoyed that we've been
getting some requests from from folks
for for topics and something that's come
up a lot recently has been requesting
that we talk about depression ah wow
okay great it's a it's one of my
favorite topics to talk about so that's
wonderful yeah which is bizarre we've
we've touched on it but we haven't
actually had an episode for it so I
think I think if I recall correctly
our first episode ever our first
iteration of a first episode was on
depression oh that's right and it was
like three hours and everybody all of
our friends who listened to it were like
dude you gotta make this shorter and
this is like you're wandering so we just
never came back to it yeah this is
perfect yeah yeah well I think we've got
our shorter game dialed a little bit
Yeah despite that we're continuing to
talk about it
for a while so maybe let's just get
right into it okay
perfect right all right that was a
professional that just for everybody
who's listening that was a professional
segue okay just yeah
yeah we
I paid good money to learn that that
Segway and license it from the
professionals
foreign
all right so let's do it what's what is
what is depression Joe
what is this about yeah you know
it's interesting with that one I think
it's something that I I want to Define
I want to be really particular about how
I Define this thing and I I first want
to say that I'm not talking about it as
like in a clinical psychological way
meaning like I'm not what we're about to
do is not to diagnose somebody
um
so I so I I'm just going to tell you
about my experience of working with
people who have worked with or suffered
from depression and and what I've
noticed is that there is
there's lots of good definitions of it
uh but the thing that I would say is
that
I would Define it very particularly from
the place of the
head heart and God if you will or the
the human brain the mammalian brain and
the
reptilian nervous system brain and I
think that it makes a lot of sense to
Define what depression is from those
three places
and to
separate that from the symptoms of
depression because I think oftentimes
what's happening is people are really
working on the symptoms of depression
and they are not working on the root
causes and so my definition is how I see
the the root causes that's and that's
why it's the definition not this not not
I'm not defining by the symptoms
got it and and we're describing these
three nervous systems the the sort of
like the human the mammalian The
Reptilian we also refer to that a lot in
this work as the head heart and the gut
yeah that's right yeah okay so let's
let's start then how how would you
define
uh depression or introduce depression as
it relates to the Head
yeah so
so again you know there's like in the
clinical approach psychological clinical
approach to depression there's different
levels of depression and
and some of them can really get into
you know losing touch with reality and
I've had a friend go through that and so
I'm not speaking to that at all but when
somebody can I self-identify as
depressed
um
and it that's that's what I'm speaking
to when I Define it this way so in the
head it's negative Cell It's like a
tremendous amount of negative self-talk
it means that the the voice in the head
is very negative and and very regular
so that's how I would Define it and so
in those things there's going to be a
lot of shoulds a lot of
uh that negative self-talk is going to
have a ton of shoulds it's going to have
a ton of why didn't you do this a
abusive voice in the head that's
happening a tremendous amount
um it's going to be uh
uh
second guessing everything that happens
so it's it's just that just very abusive
very critical
uh self-talk if someone is listening and
they're like I don't have a voice in my
head
uh how might that still show up in the
mind if if it's not something people
identify as having a voice or words
I think with depression that there is a
voice and it is I don't know I've never
met anybody who's had that level of
depression oh that's not true I have met
a couple people
um but they have done a lot of work to
let go of that voice and that like to
have have a different thing than the
voice in the head working so I know some
people who are long-term meditators
where the voice in the head has really
moved away but the depression is still
there and when we talk about it that's
where I'd say the heart and the nervous
system come in so it's like all three
levels yeah but if somebody there are
some people probably are like I don't
know what do you mean voice in the head
just because they've never really
explored that
and what I would say is just be silent
and listen and you will hear
yourself tell yourself something and
that's what I'm talking about by the
voice in the head and if you start
paying attention to that there's going
to be a lot of you should have done this
you should do this you should really
make it this way why didn't you do it
this way what's going on here you didn't
do that right a lot of you know hurry up
hurry up get that done why haven't you
done this yet you're 40 and it's already
blah blah blah blah you're 35 and you've
already blah blah blah blah did you see
how they thought of you they didn't like
that at all it's going to be that kind
of Perpetual negative self-talk yeah
yeah
that's what's happening on the head
level of somebody who's who's who's
who's working with depression yeah okay
so let's let's then move down to the
heart how does it show up on the Heart
level
commotions so it's
um particularly stuck anger occasionally
stuck grief but
if you're listening to this and you're
like but anger's bad or anything like
like I would say it's a 97 chance that
it's stuck anger and that's the first
place to go so it means that basically
all the negative
when you're feeling angry it all goes
towards yourself
and so since it never gets released it
never finds out it never
finds a way to move away from you
because since you're not allowed to
express it it all goes inward it
keeps on coming back at you and so
that lack of expression of anger and
that can be for many reasons and there's
the anger episode that we have
um it can be because my dad was angry
and I'm never going to be like that or
it's going to be like I was told my
anger wasn't acceptable here temper
tantrums weren't welcome but there's a
lot of reasons people don't get angry
um but it means that there's
no expression of anger and and in that
I'm saying I'm not suggesting that you
go out and start yelling at people
you can express anger without doing it
at anybody and so
and that usually has the in modern
society usually has the quickest
change of depression than any other
thing is like moving and expressing that
anger on a regular basis
and so you just described like almost
all cases or most cases what about the
other cases you said stuck stuck grief
sadness and and oftentimes underneath
the anger there'll be some sadness too
uh yeah so
for some for maybe three percent they're
just they can't get sad there's no
there's no capacity for Tears or crying
or that kind of stuff
and so that can create some depression
too but typically like I said it's anger
and if the anger moves and the tears
will come naturally
so how would you know if this applies to
you if someone's a listener and they're
like well I just don't I feel depressed
I don't feel like there's any anger
there it's just it's just about bad
things happening to me or it's about my
situation there's nothing to be angry
about what would you
what kind of exploration would you offer
go get angry tell me what you think
um
yeah so typically when someone's like
that I can't identify the anger
um
typically
I would point out all the ways that
they're passive aggressive all the ways
in which they
um
use being stuck or despondent or
apathetic or rebellious or not being on
time
how they have somebody in their life
who's their authority figure that is
constantly upset with them because they
haven't been doing the thing that they
need to do
I would end the fact that they're not in
touch with their own wants
but they're just constantly have a life
where it's set up where there's people
who they're disappointing and then they
beat themselves up for that
disappointment I'd say all of that is
anger all of that is repressed anger as
well as like
being the feeling of being stuck all the
time
[Music]
you know the feeling of of not being
able to change their situation
all of those things to me are and are
all anger
and that's repressed and so if you what
I know normally do in a in a coaching
session is I take away their capacity to
be
uh passive aggressive and I'll just push
them
that will keep on like pointing to the
anger and eventually they get really
really upset with me and they're like ah
and then I'll go yay look there you're
angry that's what I'm talking about
right there and and then they'll start
smiling they'll see the the thing but
all of that's really not necessary if
you're depressed just get angry
even if you're like there's nothing to
get angry about I don't know how to get
angry I can't get angry really I try but
it goes away no just just like pretend
you are in
a play and your job is to get angry as
heck
and angry until you have complete
Clarity like that's the role that you're
playing your body's going to want to
collapse but see yourself as an actor
trying to play this role and give the
most compelling performance ever
and great your mind is like this isn't
true that's fine I'm just acting that's
fine but move the anger and see what
happens
that's the experiment don't worry about
what your head says for a minute you've
been listening to your head for those
who are depressed who are listening to
this you have been listening to
everything the voice in your head says
for whatever years and this is exactly
where it's gotten you so if you think
that's the thing to listen to you should
expect the exact same results you have
right now
so instead see what it's like to listen
to your anger for
40 minutes see what happens
and of course there to bookmark our we
have a couple of episodes on anger in
the emotion series that would give you
some further signposting on ways to make
that
something that doesn't reify shame or
you know create the like prove the story
that your anger is dangerous yeah or
cause you to hurt people highly
recommend listening to the anger
episodes if you're going to do this you
know yeah Okay so we've spoken to the
how The Head and the Heart are involved
in depression and where how it shows up
in those parts how about the the nervous
system The Reptilian nervous system yeah
so a good story on the nervous system I
was like doing my first company and I
went to an acupuncturist and the
acupuncture said oh your adrenal glands
are kind of
getting getting beat up here here's some
stuff for your adrenal glands gave me
some adaptogens and
and
um and I asked this act
oh what would you because it was my
first time with acupuncture I'm like if
you're a western doctor what would you
do and he said well I'd wait for a while
and then you'd start drinking a ton of
coffee and then maybe energy drinks and
then you get depressed and I give you
antidepressants
and the way he saw the system work was
that uh anxiety is a big part of the
depression now whatever it is 25 years
later they're starting to treat
depression with anti-anxiety medication
so like the Western people are catching
up a little bit but it's still not
actually replenishing the adrenal system
according to acupuncturists
um but yeah so the
so the idea is that if you've been
running on
um
adrenaline over and over again you get
to depressed
and so the couple ways that you can see
this
typically with folks is that if you're
constantly under self-attack from The
Voice in your head you're constantly
under stress I'm not doing good enough
each one of those is this little
adrenaline boost the other way that
that's really typical is like I have
I cannot tell you how many CEOs I know
who when they retire they spend a lot of
time in their pajamas
and they're not motivated and then they
beat themselves up for not being
motivated because they're adrenal
they're just suffering from not like
their adrenals are spent
and
and the negative self-talk unit doesn't
help them recover
and so that's another way to look at is
you know I remember listening to Billie
Jean King and probably a lot of people
don't know who she is anymore but she
was
a woman's right activist who was a
professional tennis player
and she was really advocating for
women's rights and and you know some
some version of the feminism at the time
and
and I was listening to her talk in the
90s and she was playing I think in the
70s or something like that and she said
yeah today I wake up tired and I know
I'm not tired from yesterday I'm tired
from the 70s
and I and I know a lot of folks that are
that are in that kind of a situation so
yeah that would be another way to
describe it and unfortunately when
people go into that and then they start
beating themselves for not being
productive not being active not to
instead of actually just allowing
themselves to recuperate
another question for another time
but I just want to say it is like how
how many CEOs are like What proportion
of CEOs do you see that are not in
adrenal fatigue
in their role
yeah yeah that's a good question
I'm not going to answer that right now I
don't know crazy tangent yeah yeah yeah
that's for another time yeah all right
so we've spoken to the Head heart the
gut the head part you know the nervous
system level what else what what are
some other levels on which we could
kind of Define what yeah what you see I
don't know if this is a definition or a
symptom but I would say it it's if it is
a symptom it's one that you if you treat
it seems to go to the core problem which
is the
connection level of it most of the
people who start getting into some sort
of Depression start isolating themselves
and they either isolate themselves by
just being alone a lot
or they isolate themselves by
um
making sure that the interactions that
they have are not fulfilling don't have
deep connection but in one way or
another they're isolating themselves
they're they're this negative self-talk
has made it so that they are very
ashamed and so they don't speak about
certain things
um they're not open with anybody about
what's happening inside of them
and they don't have like a sense of
community and so that is
that is a great way to address
depression is to actively work on
building your community and making sure
that those connections are deep and
meaningful
and so I think that would be the social
way I would describe
depression and like I said I I think
there it's a bit of a symptom and a bit
of a Cause
um but and so I don't know exactly how
to define it in that way but I do know
that if you address it it really can
change yeah depression a lot
well being being both a symptom and a
cause can make it can cause that can
make it that there's a feedback loop
that can go in either direction the
negative feedback loop of disconnection
and isolation
or the positive news here is that you
can get into a positive feedback loop
yes
which is really what a lot of the work
that that we do involve there's a lot of
group work a lot of group connection and
really opening up the capacity for that
connection to impact your nervous system
and set you down a
a more positive feedback loop yeah I
think that's the thing about depression
in general is that there's a feedback
loop to it like you start negatively
talking to yourself and then you start
believing it and then your performance
is less and so then you talk more
negatively about yourself which means
you are like again
go even deeper into non-productivity or
non not being who you want to be right
if you tell yourself every day like your
[__] your [__] your [__] your [__]
you're gonna start acting more like [__]
you know if every day you
say don't get angry don't get angry
don't get angry you're like you're
constricting and it just all of it feeds
on itself which is an interesting thing
some some of these you know some
idiosyncrasies don't feed on themselves
like this but this this one really feeds
on itself
yeah it seems that seems true up and
down the nervous system too where if
you're if you have anxiety you're not
even aware of the anxiety
the kinds of emotions and thoughts are
going to have on top of that anxiety are
going to be anxiously produce thoughts
yeah which are going to be the kind of
thought that will trigger you and cause
more chemicals of fear to release in
your body that you may or may not be
aware of because your emotions are stuck
yeah and that that cycle also then
perpetuates
yeah and they and they're all related in
the negative self-talk makes you feel
like you're under attack on the nervous
system creates more anxiety the more
anxiety you have the more you're trying
to get out of it which makes you feel
stuck like there's so many ways in which
this all feeds each other which is
which I think what makes it apparently
challenging to get out of it's not
actually challenging to get out of
um I know so many people who have
totally turned the corner on this
and and can do it in really short
periods of time
I I can imagine a number of listeners
who maybe they're having a hard time
accessing their anger until you said
it's not really challenging to get out
of us
good yep getting angry is easy
I don't believe that you can't get angry
[Laughter]
exactly
um yeah yeah
okay so so what are some of the other
symptoms how how because one of the
things I just noticed often and
especially like when I have been in a
place of feeling somewhat depressed it's
just amazing how
difficult it can be to see through the
forest and actually notice it be like oh
that's what's happening yeah so what are
some other what are some other symptoms
that you might see in someone's life
yeah
um so one a couple things on the
symptoms of the thoughts that you
believe them but if you really take a
close look at them you'll notice that
they're automatic that they're not Based
on data and they contradict each other
so
you'll notice that the negative thoughts
all seem to have that it's
um and they're constantly attacking you
instead of actually trying to adjust
like the voice in the head isn't trying
to adjust itself it's trying to adjust
you which is abusive
so that's something to see as far as
kind of straightforward
symptoms you have a lot of pessimism you
have some forever thinking it's never
going to change it's always going to be
like this how am I ever going to get out
of it uh the feeling of being stuck
um you have a soul dysmorphia
you can't see yourself clearly
um you have friends telling you how
awesome you are and you can't believe it
um uh the short attention span like it's
very hard for people to focus when
they're depressed there's the adrenal
fatigue so those are all some of the
things you know like uh I don't have the
energy to do something I don't want to
do this uh like that feeling
all is based on
it's all based on are all symptoms of
depression
and oftentimes that's why people go
after they're like oh you know I just
need to think positively uh or
um they say I wish I wasn't so tired I
have to do something to stop being
fatigued or I feel stuck and I don't
want to feel stuck they they're
constantly working on the symptoms
but they're not saying oh what is it
like to not speak to myself negatively
what is it like to move my emotions what
is it like to
put myself constantly in places where my
nervous system can relax
how do I stop believing the voice in my
head those things are what what are far
more likely to solve the problem than
trying to say
you know how do I become more optimistic
or how do I
um
how do I uh see myself more clearly or
how do I focus or how do I you know not
be fatigued
and so that's typically that's why
people think it's really hard is because
they're treating the symptoms instead of
the cause
right right and then there's there's a
thing you said a moment ago about how
you know all of the thoughts you'll see
that there's no data behind them yes uh
and I think that's the partial truth or
the the partial not truth to that is
that there's data behind them but it's
selective data so the belief that it's
hard to get out of comes from that it
has not worked to do what you've been
doing to get out of it
yes yeah so there's the data like you
you're 40 and you don't own a house
right and so that's true and it's data
but it's very selective data it's
not like it's it's not seeing everything
that you have done right it's always
looking at the negative side of the
equation and never looking at the
positive side of the equation it's
it's you're treating yourself the way
you wouldn't treat somebody else
typically
yeah or it's I've tried this this and
this this that and the other thing
to treat my depression and it hasn't
worked therefore it's hard when all of
the things that you may have tried may
have actually been to treat the symptoms
and what in the way you just described
or may have been strategies to change
your
change your circumstances sometimes they
might have even been like perfectly
orchestrated to not work right the other
thing I would say is that most the other
way to present the same thing you're
saying is
uh you are
in every way you've tried to fix
yourself you've assumed there's
something wrong with you
and that you need to be fixed and this
is how you're going to fix it
and that won't work
yeah but that can be such a alluring
thing to be like oh you know what
there's going to be a plan I'm going to
execute on that plan and then when the
plan is finished voila Freedom you can
have that it just can't start with the
Assumption of there's something wrong
with me
that I have to fix if it's um
oh my voice in the head is not competent
and I need to help the voice in the head
become competent
that's a very different approach than
there's something wrong with me that I
have to fix
and so so typically right because the
very premise that of that there's
something wrong with me is the exact
kind of thought that triggers the fear
in the nervous system triggers the the
self-attack triggers the it literally is
the depression there's a way to think of
it as there's something wrong with me is
the depression
and so any fight with any fight to make
make yourself better is part of the
self-fulfilling prophecy of depression
yeah yeah yeah okay so
so if if we if we kind of boil it down
to the belief that there's something
wrong with me being the the core here
what are some things you can do let's
say that belief just feels really
persistent and maybe your mind kind of
sort of gets it but nah you just can't
fully let that in yeah or explore it
what what are some things that you can
do
yeah so that would be something other
than treating the symptom I spoke to
some of them so and so I'll probably
speak to them again and see what else
comes up so on the head part of it
you can do simple things like stop using
like noticing every time you use the
word should and see what it's like to
change it to the word want
um to look at the negative self-talk and
really question it and and notice how it
it how it's it's nonsensical so like
literally write down here's the 20
negative most persistent negative cell
thoughts and then literally debate them
with yourself
like take the other side and say I'm
gonna see if the voice in my head is
actually accurate and really debate with
it
um
at some point you get to a place where
any of the negative self-talk you're
just like yeah that's [__] that's
bullsh there's also there's a little bit
of Truth in each of them but like the
the general premise is [__] [__]
[__] [__] and that makes the
change happen really quickly when you
can see that
um
other ways to deal with it is when you
have the negative self-talk right now
most likely you listen to it and agree
with it
wow you really [__] up yeah I [__]
up okay I gotta do something about that
instead of you [__] up uh that's
really shitty management that's not how
you should manage me that's like bad
coaching or you [__] up are you
talking to you is this the voice in the
head talking to itself or is it talking
to me did I [__] up or did you [__] up
you know or you know everything did I
[__] up while listening to you for the
past 10 years exactly or you [__] up
you why shouldn't you done that and you
could literally just respond to the
voice in the head
um
uh I see that you're really scared and
that's okay it's okay that you're scared
there's lots of iterations that you can
try but one of the things that the voice
in the head is that if you if you treat
it differently it starts behaving
differently and so most of us just kind
of accept acquiesce to the voice in the
head and then we do this kind of what
Fritz pearls talked about was she was
like overdog Underdog that overdog is
like you should do this you should do
this and the other dog is like yeah I
should [__] you yeah I should [__] you
yeah I should [__] you and the [__] yous
are all the ways that you sabotage
yourself
yeah yeah I really should do that and
then you don't do it yeah I shouldn't
watch it again then you keep on watching
video games like that's the
underdogs role and so most people once
they start realizing that the voice in
the head is the issue they try to change
the voice in the head but you can also
change their response you know
it could be like
yeah you really should have shouldn't
have done that it's like
yeah I really really shouldn't have done
that I'm such a bad bad bad bad person
for having done that like or you can be
you shouldn't have done that and your
response can be
and I'm saying I'm a musical
say wow you repeat yourself a lot and
yet I still don't listen to you
apparently maybe you should try a
different way you know thousands of
responses so for the head that's those
are some of the ideas in the Heart part
it's it's moved the anger move the anger
move the anger
best way is to is to listen to the parts
of our podcast about anger that's I
think I don't want to go into all the
ways to do it it's very big and I'd
rather have them listen and then for the
nervous system it's really about
accepting pleasure
it's really about putting yourself into
really calm States nature massage
time in water
cold plunges hot saunas
stretching yeah anything that like
allows you to feel the pleasure and what
I notice is that
oftentimes that pleasure is taken away
with shame and so
you know the simple things that you can
get a lot of pleasure from like eating
or breathing or walking or talking to a
friend is all like interrupted with
shame so it's like how do you take
pleasure in your daily life and all the
little things that are there yeah and
just I don't know just fully physical
like enjoyable oh wow just listening to
the way that my voice is vibrating my
vocal cords right now has a pleasure in
it
that breath has a pleasure in it so how
do I pull the pleasure how do I it's not
pull how do I
relax into the pleasure of the moment
is a really great way to work with the
nervous system
yeah so what I'm seeing here is sort of
this Arc from the head into the heart
into the nervous system one one pathway
that I hear you describing is that you
can you can work with a relationship we
have with a voice in our head so it
might be like oh you really [__] up
that opportunity and you'd be like
but if you if you listen to it if you
really work through that relationship
you'll recognize oh yeah I hear that you
really really wanted that opportunity
and there'd be some emotion under that
and that would move it down to the heart
like yeah there's some there's some
heartbreak there's some grief and
not getting what I wanted or in
not showing up the way I wanted to or
whatever whatever it was that the voice
really wanted for me and all the other
parts of myself and that was also like
[__] you voice in the head for talking
to me like that what the [__] yeah
yeah there's also that anger yeah yeah
yeah
and then when that all moves when that
emotion moves
there's spaciousness in the nervous
system and that third piece that I hear
you talking about is allowing there to
be pleasure in the nervous system
it has been so used to being constricted
in such a way
as to be congruent with that abusive
voice in the head
and the stuck emotions in the heart
and now
there's a
yeah go ahead yeah there's that's true
for some folks and then for some folks
it's all about just moving the anger and
then they can feel the you know that
like I wouldn't give a I don't want
anyone to think there's a particular
order that works so I would out all of
the anys any way you want to do it is
great my experience in modern day is
that the the anger moving is probably
the best and quickest
um response the uh the other thing is
obviously Community is like deeper
connection we talked about this the last
thing that someone can do is just really
increase their connection increase their
sense of community be more vulnerable
whether that's like a 12-step program or
you know a course with us or or there's
a thousand ways men's groups
psychologists whatever you can do to
actually share what's going on with you
and feel supported
whatever is a good match for you yeah so
so how about the case where you have a
friend who's depressed yeah or a partner
what would you have to say about that
yeah so
so again the the issue here is what I
spoke about earlier which is if you come
in with a premise that there's something
wrong with you and I'm here to help you
or I'm here to help you which means that
there's something wrong with you it
means you're not capable then you're
only
deepening the problem and so there's a
guy whose Name Escapes me unfortunately
but he he's a
he was a
he was a Quaker he had this really
strong community and so when he got
depressed
all these folks came in to help him out
and he said they all hurt they all made
the problem worse
and
because everybody was coming in and
telling him
what was wrong with him
and because they were like you could do
this you could do this you could do this
here's how you could help you know
everybody good intentions but what what
a depressed person hears in those
moments is this seed this is what's
wrong with me this is what's wrong with
me
and so instead he said The only person
who helped him was somebody who just
came in and washed his feet every
Tuesday
I think it was you know
which basically was the only person who
was saying
you're great you're perfect just the way
you are you don't need to change it
and he said those that was the only
person who was helpful in his depression
and so
so often times when we're trying to fix
somebody who's depressed where we don't
want to feel it we think there's
something wrong with them we're
aggravated at them
at some point we wanted to change
and so we're sending them the message
that they're broken which only amplifies
the whole problem and so however you do
it the idea is to send the message that
you're whole
yeah I love the foot washing thing
that's like an amplification in the
other direction yes he could have just
been like yeah I'm here with you you
feel depressed that's okay there's
nothing wrong with you right he did he
went he went big but but he just went
like went big yeah I recently had a
client who did that on you know had this
moment
working with me where they got in touch
with this just very deep love this
really deep sense of like love and
service and devotionalness and um which
is cool and
came and had been spent it had really
done a lot to help their friend who was
depressed and
had Revisited them after a couple months
and that's what they did and that just
it was how they were moved it wasn't
like a prescription and and
I think bat he didn't wash but bow to
the feet you know and
and so yeah any way that you can just
send the message that like oh yeah
you're
you're great just the way you are I can
love you unconditionally in this place
is is really the is what they need to
learn to do for themselves and so you
can be that a representation of that for
them an example of that you can lead
them in that way
yeah and what if you can't what if you
find yourself just
unable to love the part of somebody that
is
that feels they're bad or wrong because
it makes you feel scared or
oppressed or yeah well I'm not
responsible hey it's not your job to fix
anybody so there's that
and that's a really good signal at the
thing you can't love about yourself so
if you if you're really into it for your
own Freedom then the best thing is to
learn to love the part of yourself that
you can't love in them
and that is that that'll provide a lot
of freedom for you
uh but yeah your job isn't to fix
somebody so if you're not able to
contribute to them in a way that is
beneficial than not doing harm is great
you know maybe it can just be like a
text message every once in a while it
says I love you
you know
like it doesn't have to be like I'm
hanging out with you for five hours
every week and listening to you tell me
about how everything in your life sucks
like
yeah which if it came out of the
obligation it would still be a another
way of saying they're broken and that's
right you're here to fix them that's it
even if it's by being there with them in
the way that you heard on the podcast
yeah
that's right yeah exactly
exactly can't come out of obligation
yeah yeah awesome awesome
well this is fun yeah it was good it was
nice to that it wasn't it wasn't three
hours
yeah it wasn't three hours it was
much more bite-sized and manageable than
the the first iteration yeah and it was
a joy for me to record yeah it was a
pleasure all right hopefully you can get
some sleep and rest and get off Zoom
let me
know at least enjoy it at least enjoy it
I am all right all right and then my
nervous system will get some rest
sometime
okay
thank you everybody for listening if
this episode brought up some thoughts or
questions for you we'd love to hear from
you you can reach out to us on Twitter
at Art of a comp or you can email us at
podcast art of accomplishment.com take
care see you next time
[Music]
please